more than 200 people kidnapped by Hamas
on the 7th of October are still being
held hostage yarden Roman is one of them
she was visiting family in kabot bear
with her husband Alo and three-year-old
daughter geffin when the militants
attacked her brother Gilly Roman has
been in Washington seeking support from
senators and representatives DW's
Washington bureau chief inis pole
reports Gilly Roman has been at the
Holocaust Memorial Museum before this
time the German Israeli didn't come to
Washington to learn about the past but
to fight for the future of his sister
yarden Roman on Saturday morning we all
got into the shelters I got to the
shelter in Tel Aviv she got to the
shelter in B next to Aza so I asked like
which teddy Bear got into the shelter
which teddy bear was left out and she
was kind of frustrated that the favorite
teddy bears were were kind of neglected
outside and the GE and my my nie may be
upset with her and I said leave it she
will meet the teddy bears you will be
okay yarden hit with her husband Alon
and GTH but it wasn't going to be okay
the shelter wasn't a safe place they
were taken uh the three of them inside a
vehicle with four armed terrorists
towards Gaza and at a certain point next
to the Border they decided to escape
they ran out side jumped out of the
moving car Gan was holding gean in her
hands and there was started running
towards the forest like a small Forest
trying to find shelter the tourist
noticed them started to run after them
shooting at them trying to either kill
them or capture them again then y then
found understood that she cannot run
fast enough so she just gave the most
pressure thing in her life to the hands
of her husband alone and he managed to
run away really fast and fight a hiding
spot where he was hiding with geen until
dark dark time more than 12 hours with
no food no water
nothing then they started to slowly get
into the Kut Jewish groups here in the
US are financing Gilly Roman's trip to
Washington so he can meet with lawmakers
on Capitol Hill it's crucial for us to
convey the message that time is running
out and we have to be vocal and we have
to act and we need them to stand with us
to express this message on the senate
floor to ensure that people do not
forget that there are still over 200
people alive that can still be saved
today tomorrow if I could speak with you
then right now and to deliver a message
to her it's clear that the first thing
that I would tell her is that GE and her
daughter is alive and the brave act that
she has done to run away and to give
Gein to her husband alone was worthwhile
and Gein is safe and happy and and
secure with us back at the Holocaust
Memorial Museum Gilly Roman lays out the
connections between then and now our
family
story
comes from what we are seeing here from
the Holocaust that my grandmother my
German grandmother managed to run away
just the day afterr all of her family
except from her brother has died there
and she taught us how important it is to
have a state and to have a secure
Homeland for
ourselves un fortunately it's not
completely secure if my sister had to to
run away also from people trying to kill
her just because she's Jewish and trying
to shoot at her and her innocent child
but it's crucial for us to keep this
security and to have also Germany by our
side that with us so we have to have a
safe space in this
world well gersan Basin is an Israeli
Peace activist who helped negotiate the
release of Israeli soldier gillad shalet
who was held hostage by Hamas for more
than 5 years welcome back at to DW um
you've been in direct contact with Hamas
at quite a senior level for some time
now but now when perhaps such
communication channels might be
particularly valuable you've broken off
contact tell us
why no I haven't broken off contact I'm
still in contact with some Hamas members
they have gone silent over the last days
which is usually an indication that
something serious is going on at least
that's what I hope I broke contact with
the main interlocutor who I've been in
contact with for 17 years the person who
was on the other side of the
negotiations for the release of gilat
chalit and
1227 prisoners Dr AI hammed who until
recently was the minister of social
Affairs in Gaza and a member of the poit
bureo making decisions in Gaza he
actually left Gaza about two months ago
and he's been in Beirut and he has acted
as the primary
spokesperson defending Hamas and
legitimizing the terrorism that they did
in Israel on October 7th in a recent
interview that he gave in Beirut in
Arabic he declared that Hamas was
justifying in what it did and will
continue to do it and wish that there
will be many October 7s and said that
Israel the state of Israel needed to be
annihilated it was an unjust and
illogical State and he crossed the line
when he denied that they did what they
did and said that they would redo it
again and again this is no longer
someone who I can have any respect for
and see as a potential interlocutor in a
very difficult n negotiation to save
human lives and you wrote an open letter
in which you said I think you have lost
your mind and you have lost your moral
code I never want to speak to you again
very personal
words yeah went I went deeper and I
explained what I was talking about and
also the context of having a
relationship with this man for 17 years
and having succeeded in negotiating
several ceasefires and even on the day
that gilad sharit was released together
with the Palestinian prisoners at 7 o'
in the morning he called me and said to
me next time we'll negotiate peace for
the last years we've been talking about
the relation of the bodies of two
Israeli soldiers in Gaza and two
civilians who are alive in Gaza and
we've talked about possibilities of
long-term understandings and ceasefires
but something happened to this man and
he is not the same person that I've
known we've met four times face to face
we've talked about life we've talked
about our families we've talked about
religion everything that normal people
talk about but he has become a monster
and defending the acts of
monster and on the the the hostages who
are still being held should we believe
Hamas when they claim that Israeli
hostage were killed in Israeli air
strikes we don't know I wouldn't believe
a word that they say as I caution
everyone everything that's said around
the issue of the hostages by Israel by
Hamas by Qatar by Egypt by anyone is all
part of the negotiations the release of
the videotape of the three women the
release of two women and then another
two women this is all part of a
framework of negotiation of creating an
environment of pressure on on the
government of Israel on one side on
Hamas on the other side the Israeli
incursion into Gaza not going all the
way and not yet going into the tunnels
is aimed at putting pressure on Hamas
with regard to the hostages I think that
we have to be categorical here and we
have to say that the hostages must be
freed the women the children the infants
the elderly the sick and the woman have
to be released and released without a
payment because it's not only against
international law to to do this to hold
them cast captives they're innocent
non-combatants it's against Islam it's
against the Quran it's say specifically
that you don't attack women and children
and elderly and you certainly don't hold
them as hostage and it's interesting
that you you talk about um uh all of
this as as part of the negotiation as as
part of the the game if I can put it
that way when when Hamas released four
hostages and what they said were
humanitarian grounds last week in in two
sets what was that about then what what
what pressure was releasing part of your
leverage uh putting on presumably on the
Israeli government it wasn't a Hamas
strategic decision to leas release them
we need to see The Wider context the
first two hostages who were released are
American citizens they were specifically
named by President Biden and secretary
blinkin to the qataris and the and the
Americans put a lot of pressure on the
qataris to pressure Hamas and they
delivered this was a sign of Qatar being
a serious partner in these negotiations
despite the problematics of Qatar
involved in these negotiations several
days later the Egyptians managed to
release two other hostages who were not
American citizens in fact only had
Israeli citizenship and they were
released directly by the Kasam forces
the military wing of Hamas and this was
essentially the competition between
Qatar and Egypt showing who's a better
negotiator who's more important here
where should the emphasis be placed who
should the Americans support
um as a peace activist you you have said
in the past and I'm I'm quoting you now
I have called Israel's bombing of
innocent civilians in Gaza a war crime
um do you stand by
that I Do I Do stand by that I think
that there's a human catastrophe taking
place in Gaza the numbers of innocent
non-combatants being killed is
intolerable and and Israel should be
fighting its battles without endangering
so many civilians so many citizens in
Gaza I want to say though that I think
it's completely Justified for Israel to
say no ceasefire without hostages being
released in fact even humanitarian Aid
going into Gaza should be linked to
hostages being released the pressure
should be applied on Hamas and not on
Israel with regard to humanitarian Aid
in fact I have said that Israel should
announce that Israel is willing to bring
humanitarian Aid of its own water and
food and medic supplies to the Innocents
of Gaza but Hamas must be pressured to
release hostages immediately time is
running out that's very clear thank you
so much for for joining us former
Israeli hostage negotiator aoson
abaskin thank you let's hear from Galia
gam Mahi now she was born and raised in
Israel now lives in Los Angeles in the
United States she sadly lost two family
members in the Hamas terrorist attack
and four of her relatives are still
missing in her cousin nadf and his
20-year-old daughter were murdered in
the Hamas attack on their kibuts on
October the 7th nf's wife Chen their
teenage daughter aam and their small
Sons gal and T are believed to have been
kidnapped by Hamas Galia welcome to DW
how did you find out your family was
among the
victims um on the day the attack
happened uh I was here in the US uh
preparing for my flight um back home and
um we have a WhatsApp group where we're
all connected and it was a Jewish
holiday and very early in the morning
Israel time we started getting the
messages that the kabut is being
attacked and my cousin and his family uh
took refuge in their safe room in the
house um after about 20 hours or so we
lost contact with them and we started
fearing for the worst fast forward into
Sunday and Monday um um we uh learned
that uh um from the IDF that were able
to go into the house that they suspected
that there were four bodies uh in the
room uh where they were hiding and that
two Miss are missing and in those first
few hours we had hoped that maybe the
little boys tal and gal were managed to
escape uh there was a lot of confusion
there was a lot of fighting it was an
active uh fighting area and we were
getting conflicted
information um into the second week of
the war um we were able to get concrete
information that there were only two
bodies in the room that were my family
members it took many days to identify
them because they were dismembered and
burned and we were able to confirm that
it was my cousin naav and his
20-year-old daughter because she had a
butterfly tattoo and he recently had
surgery um and he had Stitch es and he
had a metal plate um he had a bicycling
accident and he was recovering uh so we
were able to figure out that it's him
and then the four the wife and other
children were missing for a long period
of time missing meant two things they
were either in a pile somewhere I hate
to say it unrecognizable or kidnapped uh
there wasn't any evidence as to where
they were and um last week we got
concrete evidence from the IDF
intelligence community that they have
confirmation that they were indeed
kidnapped that day and that's really all
we know at this point so you know
nothing about where or how they
are no so that is that is the agony and
the anguish that we're facing right now
is that we don't know where they are we
don't know what condition or if they
were injured uh in the process C of
being kidnapped we don't know if the mom
and the kids are together we don't know
if they're um held in the tunnels below
ground in the dark as some witnesses
have told us from the recently um
liberated umap piece or they're in a
home
somewhere um we haven't slept all we can
think about is are they hurt uh how are
the little boys are they with their mom
or
not did the boys witness their father
being killed um what did they see on the
way how was their Journey um there have
been no to any of the hostages not just
my family there's been no proof of life
there's been no uh videos uh no Red
Cross uh delegation that was able to go
into Gaza to see you know what's
happened to all of these people we're in
the complete darkness yeah and it has
been terrible terrible ter terrible to
to just speculate and not know what's
happened to our family it sounds like an
absolute nightmare you say you went back
to Israel shortly after the attacks how
did that feel how was that for
you I just didn't think about it I just
started I booked a flight um I also
heard that there was a lot of distress
and there was because of the attack was
so sudden and the Army was calling a lot
of reservists to come and help in the
fight they were um short on a lot of
supplies um so my husband and I took
three extra suitcases we had a friend
who's in the Army and we brought with us
um cell phone batteries and little LED
lights for helmets and any supplies that
we could to to help
people um and then I just got on an L
flight the only Airline who was flying
hours uh in fear and in
sorrow um and from the minute I got
there it was a Non-Stop um action um a
lot of Sorrow um you know attending
funerals uh talking to family members
and just really being immersed in in
like what's happening in Israel um at
the moment part of why this was so
shocking to people in Israel is that the
country was built on a promise of Safety
and Security for the Jewish people will
your home country ever be the same to
you after this
so thank you for asking that um I think
we're currently in National
trauma and I
think really World trauma right I mean
the things that we've witnessed the
eyewitness testimony that we've heard
the video we've seen I don't think our
brains or human beings were created to
even process these kinds of thoughts or
these kinds of images
um I think that we will uh overcome
this
um but we're never going to be the same
yeah Gia I I don't know if you're even
in a place to think about politics right
now but do you think Israel is doing
everything it can to get the hostages
released so um you know it's a complex
question I would tell you that
um I have confidence in the
conversations and the back channeling
that has happened my family stances when
they're asked do you know more are you
not sharing uh what the Army told you or
what the intelligence have have told you
our stances even if we knew we're not
going to say because we don't want to
sabotage the chance of getting them
back I would say that um I think there
in there's the American intelligence
community and other nations uh are
helping um and and I would like to have
faith and trust in the system that
everything is being done to get innocent
civilians back yeah um there is a
political divide um I will not deny that
the
attack caught us by surprise that there
was a delay in response right internal
um forces took a long time to get there
and to protect us and these are things
that will be addressed and will be uh
looked at when this is done yeah but
right now everybody's very United in the
National Focus to get peace and to get
everyone back no matter if they're
Israeli or not all nationalities all
human beings who are held in captivity
need to come back home to their loved
ones thank you so much for speaking to
us today Galia for you know sharing your
story and that of your family and we're
really hoping for some good news
soon thank you so much I really
appreciate the time and opportunity
thank you thank you so
much